Add information about embedded registry (#296)
rancher/rke2-docs: docs/install/airgap.md

title: Air-Gap Install
---

> RKE2 can be installed in an air-gapped environment with three different methods. You can either deploy via the [rke2-airgap-images tarball release artifact](#tarball-method), by using a [private registry](#private-registry-method) or by using the [embedded registry mirror](#embedded-registry-mirror).

Reviewer: We can't install RKE2 via the embedded registry. It just makes the image pulls easier.

Reviewer 2: I think the reference here is to an existing private registry, not to the embedded registry.

Author: That's what I wanted to reflect here because that's what we are suggesting to a customer. I'll add a bit more explanation to it, right now it's impossible to know for sure that we mean that

> RKE2 can be installed in an air-gapped environment with two different methods. You can either deploy via the [rke2-airgap-images tarball release artifact](#tarball-method) or by using a [private registry](#private-registry-method). It is also possible to install using the [embedded registry mirror](#embedded-registry-mirror) as long as there is another cluster member that includes the required images.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't say that you can "install" using the embedded registry, as you still need to get the artifact tarball from somewhere - it does not solve the install problem, just the image pull problem.

I would say that you can use the embedded registry in an airgapped environment.

```suggestion
RKE2 can be installed in an air-gapped environment with two different methods. You can either deploy images via the [rke2-airgap-images tarball release artifact](#tarball-method) or by using a [private registry](#private-registry-method). It is also possible to use the [embedded registry mirror](#embedded-registry-mirror) as long as there is at least one cluster member that has access to the required images.
```

Author: it's a good suggestion

4. [Install RKE2](#install-rke2)

## Private Registry Method
Private registry support honors all settings from the [containerd registry configuration](private_registry.md). This includes endpoint override and transport protocol (HTTP/HTTPS), authentication, certificate verification, etc.

1. Add all the required system images to your private registry. A list of images can be obtained from the `.txt` file corresponding to each tarball referenced above, or you may `docker load` the airgap image tarballs, then tag and push the loaded images.
2. [Install RKE2](#install-rke2) using the `system-default-registry` parameter, or use the [containerd registry configuration](private_registry.md) to use your registry as a mirror for docker.io.

## Embedded Registry Mirror

:::info Version Gate
The Embedded Registry Mirror is available as an experimental feature as of January 2024 releases: v1.26.13+rke2r1, v1.27.10+rke2r1, v1.28.6+rke2r1, v1.29.1+rke2r1
:::

> K3s includes an embedded distributed OCI-compliant registry mirror.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RKE2 includes an embedded distributed OCI-compliant registry mirror.
```

Author: Great catch Derek, thanks!
